----------------------------------
That information is for developers
----------------------------------

About Privacy Contact You are here: Simplified Guide » Bash » How to 
compile Bash script into binary How to compile Bash script into binary A 
Bash script is a text file containing commands written in Bash command 
language. The script below, for example, will greet the name that we 
supply as a parameter: hello.sh
#!/bin/bash
echo Hello, $1! You can execute the shell script like the following: $ 
bash hello.sh Alice Hello, Alice! File type details of the script can be 
viewed using the file command: $ file hello.sh hello.sh: Bourne-Again 
shell script, ASCII text executable One of the caveats of using such 
script is that the code is clearly visible, and it might not be as 
performant as running a compiled program. shc is a Bash script compiler. 
You can use it to hide the source code (as some would say “encrypt”) of 
the Bash script and remove dependency to Bash interpreter by compiling 
your Bash script into an executable binary from the command line. Steps 
to compile Bash script into binary: Install shc and required libraries. 
$ sudo apt update && sudo apt install --assume-yes gcc shc #For 
//Ubuntu// / //Debian//.
##### snipped
The following additional packages will be installed:
  binutils binutils-common binutils-x86-64-linux-gnu cpp cpp-8 gcc-8 
libasan5 libatomic1
  libbinutils libc-dev-bin libc6-dev libcc1-0 libgcc-8-dev libgomp1 
libisl19 libitm1
  liblsan0 libmpc3 libmpx2 libquadmath0 libtsan0 libubsan1 
linux-libc-dev manpages-dev Suggested packages:
  binutils-doc cpp-doc gcc-8-locales gcc-multilib make autoconf automake 
libtool flex bison
  gdb gcc-doc gcc-8-multilib gcc-8-doc libgcc1-dbg libgomp1-dbg 
libitm1-dbg libatomic1-dbg
  libasan5-dbg liblsan0-dbg libtsan0-dbg libubsan1-dbg libmpx2-dbg 
libquadmath0-dbg
  glibc-doc The following NEW packages will be installed:
  binutils binutils-common binutils-x86-64-linux-gnu cpp cpp-8 gcc gcc-8 
libasan5 libatomic1
  libbinutils libc-dev-bin libc6-dev libcc1-0 libgcc-8-dev libgomp1 
libisl19 libitm1
  liblsan0 libmpc3 libmpx2 libquadmath0 libtsan0 libubsan1 
linux-libc-dev manpages-dev shc 0 upgraded, 26 newly installed, 0 to 
remove and 0 not upgraded. Need to get 27.8 MB of archives.
##### snipped
For other Linux distributions. Install gcc and other basic development 
tools. Download from and refer to https://github.com/neurobin/shc 
Compile your script using shc. $ shc -f hello.sh Check generated files. 
$ ls -l hello* -rw-rw-r-- 1 user user 29 Mar 14 07:37 hello.sh 
-rwxrwxr-x 1 user user 14960 Mar 14 07:39 hello.sh.x -rw-rw-r-- 1 user 
user 10047 Mar 14 07:39 hello.sh.x.c .sh is the original script. sh.x is 
the compiled binary. .sh.x.c is the C source code generated from the .sh 
file prior to compiling to .sh.x. hello.sh.x permission is automatically 
set as executable Check file type (optional). $ file hello.sh.x 
hello.sh.x: ELF 64-bit LSB shared object, x86-64, version 1 (SYSV), 
dynamically linked, interpreter /lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, for 
GNU/Linux 3.2.0, BuildID[sha1]=22ba5ae2974d014bc0336e5888d076c82c697d64, 
stripped Rename executable (optional). $ mv hello.sh.x hello Check file 
execution. (optional). $ ./hello Alice Hello, Alice! Ezoicreport this ad 
Author: Mohd Shakir Zakaria Cloud architect by profession but always 
consider himself as a developer, entrepreneur and an opensource 
enthusiast.
  
Discuss the article: Comment anonymously. Login not required. Login Add 
a comment ADD COMMENT M ↓ MARKDOWN UpvotesNewestOldest ? Anonymous 0 
points2 months ago This doesn't work for me. The generated executable 
just "hangs" and eats all my CPU. (I'm using "shc/bionic,now 
3.8.9b-1build1 amd64" on Ubuntu 18.04.6 LTS) Mohd Shakir Zakaria 0 
points2 months ago Did it not work for your specific script, or did it 
even fail at the simple, sample script in the guide? Commento
Back to top
